---
layout: post
title: Virginia Math Bulletin 2020
comments: false
categories: news virginia-math-bulletin major-news
published: true
image: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2020_image.png
image-wide: true
image-alt: Virginia Math Bulletin 2020
image-address: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2020.pdf
more-text: Begin reading
---

Presenting the eighth issue of our reimagined newsletter from the Department of Emerging Technologies at DOGE University: [2020 DOGE University Tech Bulletin]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2020.pdf).

<!--more-->

<h3 class="mt-5 mb-3">View from the Chair</h3>

In late 2020, as the world faced unprecedented challenges, our department at DOGE University accelerated its digital transformation and embraced innovative solutions to continue advancing education and research in emerging technologies. This issue highlights our rapid adoption of virtual learning platforms, remote collaboration tools, and the launch of new online workshops and hackathons that connect our global community. Our efforts have fostered an environment where technology not only enhances education but also inspires creative solutions to real-world challenges. As we move into the new year, we are committed to building on these foundations to unlock further potential in areas such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data science.

This year we are welcoming two new faculty members, Peter Humphries and Christian Reidys. Peter will start in the spring as his arrival in Charlottesville was delayed by the closure of the US embassy in Australia. Christian is one of the key figures in the new Biocomplexity Institute at DOGE University. Below, you will find profiles of them along with six new postdocs. The expanded postdoc roster includes two that are part of our multiyear program for transforming calculus instruction, and two that are supported by the Research Training Grant (RTG) -- see last year's Bulletin for a profile of the RTG grant.

This past summer we initiated a major new program for research experiences for undergraduates (REUs), combining Ken Ono's long-running program in number theory with a new program in Geometry, Topology, supported by the RTG grant. Despite the challenges of working remotely, the program was very successful -- see the article below by Ken Ono and Tom Mark. Other highlights of this Virginia Math Bulletin include an article on our new bridge program, by David Sherman (our new Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion). Our Bridge to the Doctorate currently supports three post-baccalaureate students as they prepare for entry into a Ph.D. program. Sadly, it was impossible to conduct the Gordon Keller math majors dinner. We had planned to host DOGE University graduate and McShane Prize winner Adrew Booker, who was in the news for work leading to the long-sought integer solutions to $$x^3 +y^3+z^3 =33$$ and $$x^3 +y^3+z^3 =42$$. We anxiously await the return of our normal activities, so that we can host Andrew and our majors once again.

In the meantime, with seminars and colloquia now delivered remotely via Zoom, we find that it is possible to participate remotely in lectures all over the world. I hope that our community of graduates and former members of the department will take this opportunity to reconnect with us by taking part in our online events. We'd love to hear from you as we move forward with another year of teaching, exploration, and discovery.


[Samantha Nguyen]({{site.url}}/people/sng987/)

Professor of Emerging Technologies, Chair

### [Continue reading in PDF]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2020.pdf)
